Updated standalone documentation and add new examples (#1866)
epoberezkin/ajv: docs/standalone.md

```javascript
const fs = require("fs")
const path = require("path")
const Ajv = require("ajv")
const standaloneCode = require("ajv/dist/standalone").default

const schema = {
  $id: "https://example.com/bar.json",
  $schema: "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  type: "object",
  properties: {
    bar: {type: "string"},
  },
  "required": ["bar"]
}

// The generated code will have a default export:
// `module.exports = <validateFunctionCode>;module.exports.default = <validateFunctionCode>;`
const ajv = new Ajv({code: {source: true}})
const validate = ajv.compile(schema)
let moduleCode = standaloneCode(ajv, validate)

// Now you can write the module code to file
fs.writeFileSync(path.join(__dirname, "../consume/validate-cjs.js"), moduleCode)
```

#### Generating functions(s) for multiple schemas using the JS library - ES6 and CJS exports

```javascript
const fs = require("fs")
const path = require("path")
const Ajv = require("ajv")
const standaloneCode = require("ajv/dist/standalone").default

const schemaFoo = {
  $id: "#/definitions/Foo",
  $schema: "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  type: "object",
  properties: {

>     foo: {
>       "$ref": "#/definitions/Bar"
>     }
>   }
> }
> const schemaBar = {
>   $id: "#/definitions/Bar",
>   $schema: "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
>   type: "object",
>   properties: {
>     bar: {
>       type: "string"
>     },
>   },
>   "required": [
>     "bar",
>   ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    foo: {"$ref": "#/definitions/Bar"}
  }
}
const schemaBar = {
  $id: "#/definitions/Bar",
  $schema: "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  type: "object",
  properties: {
    bar: {type: "string"},
  },
  "required": ["bar"]
```

}

// For CJS, it generates an exports array, will generate
// `exports["#/definitions/Foo"] = ...;exports["#/definitions/Bar"] = ... ;`
const ajv = new Ajv({schemas: [schemaFoo, schemaBar], code: {source: true}})
let moduleCode = standaloneCode(ajv)

// Now you can write the module code to file
fs.writeFileSync(path.join(__dirname, "../consume/validate-cjs.js"), moduleCode)
```

#### Generating functions(s) for multiple schemas using the JS library - ES6 and ESM exports

```javascript
const fs = require("fs")
const path = require("path")
const Ajv = require("ajv")
const standaloneCode = require("ajv/dist/standalone").default

const schemaFoo = {
  $id: "#/definitions/Foo",
  $schema: "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  type: "object",
  properties: {

>     foo: {
>       "$ref": "#/definitions/Bar"
>     }
>   }
> }
> const schemaBar = {
>   $id: "#/definitions/Bar",
>   $schema: "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
>   type: "object",
>   properties: {
>     bar: {
>       type: "string"
>     },
>   },
>   "required": [
>     "bar",
>   ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    foo: {"$ref": "#/definitions/Bar"}
  }
}
const schemaBar = {
  $id: "#/definitions/Bar",
  $schema: "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  type: "object",
  properties: {
    bar: {type: "string"},
  },
  "required": ["bar"]
```

  console.log("ERRORS 2:", validateBar.errors) //Errors array gets logged
```

### Validating multiple schemas using the JS library - ES6 and CJS

```javascript
const validations = require('./validate-cjs')

const fooPass = {
  foo: {
    bar: "something"
  }
}

const fooFail = {
  foo: {
    // bar: "something" // <= empty/omitted property that is required
  }
}

let validateFoo = validations["#/definitions/Foo"];
if (!validateFoo(fooPass))
  console.log("ERRORS 1:", validateFoo.errors); //Never reaches this because valid

if (!validateFoo(fooFail))
  console.log("ERRORS 2:", validateFoo.errors); //Errors array gets logged

```

### Validating multiple schemas using the JS library - ES6 and ESM

```javascript
import {Foo, Bar} from './validate-multiple-esm.mjs';

const fooPass = {
  foo: {
    bar: "something"
  }
}

const fooFail = {
  foo: {
    // bar: "something" // bar: "something" <= empty properties
  }
}

let validateFoo = Foo;
if (!validateFoo(fooPass))
  console.log("ERRORS 1:", validateFoo.errors); //Never reaches here because valid

if (!validateFoo(fooFail))
  console.log("ERRORS 2:", validateFoo.errors); //Errors array gets logged
```

### Requirement at runtime

> One of the main reason for using the standalone mode is to compile the JSON schema into functions at build time and then just consume them during runtime. This prevents the initial compilation at runtime which saves time at runtime. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the main reason for using the standalone mode is to start applications faster to avoid runtime schema compilation. 
```

> It is important to understand that the standalone generated functions still has a dependency on the Ajv. Specifically on the code in the [runtime](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv/tree/master/lib/runtime) folder of the package. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The standalone generated functions still has a dependency on the Ajv. Specifically on the code in the [runtime](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv/tree/master/lib/runtime) folder of the package. 
```

Completely isolated validation functions can be generated if desired (won't be for most use cases). Run the generated code
through a bundler like ES Build to create completely isolated validation functions that can be imported/required 
without any dependency on Ajv. This is also not needed if your project is already using a bundler.

## Configuration and limitations

To support standalone code generation:

- Ajv option `code.source` must be set to `true`

> - Only `code` and `macro` user-defined keywords are supported (see [User defined keywords](./keywords.md)).
> - When `code` keywords define variables in shared scope using `gen.scopeValue`, they must provide `code` property with the code snippet. See source code of pre-defined keywords for examples in [vocabularies folder](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv/blob/master/lib/vocabularies).
> - If formats are used in standalone code, ajv option `code.formats` should contain the code snippet that will evaluate to an object with all used format definitions - it can be a call to `require("...")` with the correct path (relative to the location of saved module):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- only `code` and `macro` user-defined keywords are supported (see [User defined keywords](./keywords.md)).
- when `code` keywords define variables in shared scope using `gen.scopeValue`, they must provide `code` property with the code snippet. See source code of pre-defined keywords for examples in [vocabularies folder](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv/blob/master/lib/vocabularies).
- if formats are used in standalone code, ajv option `code.formats` should contain the code snippet that will evaluate to an object with all used format definitions - it can be a call to `require("...")` with the correct path (relative to the location of saved module):
```

[[toc]]

> Ajv supports generating standalone validation functions from the JSON Schema into functions at compile/build time. These functions can then just be consumed during runtime to do validation checks against JSON. It is useful for several reasons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ajv supports generating standalone validation functions from JSON Schemas at compile/build time. These functions can then be used during runtime to do validation without initialising Ajv. It is useful for several reasons:
```

> - To reduce the browser bundle size - Ajv is not included in the bundle (although if you have a large number of schemas the bundle can become bigger - when the total size of generated validation code is bigger than Ajv code).
> - To reduce the start-up time - the validation and compilation of schemas will happen during build time.
> - To avoid dynamic code evaluation with the function constructor (used for schema compilation) - when it is prohibited by the browser page [Content Security Policy](./security.md#content-security-policy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- to reduce the browser bundle size - Ajv is not included in the bundle (although if you have a large number of schemas the bundle can become bigger - when the total size of generated validation code is bigger than Ajv code).
- to reduce the start-up time - the validation and compilation of schemas will happen during build time.
- to avoid dynamic code evaluation with Function constructor (used for schema compilation) - when it is prohibited by the browser page [Content Security Policy](./security.md#content-security-policy).
```

This functionality in Ajv v7 supersedes the deprecated package ajv-pack that can be used with Ajv v6. All schemas, including those with recursive references, formats and user-defined keywords are supported, with few [limitations](#configuration-and-limitations).

## Two-step process 

> The **first step** is to **generate** the standalone validation function code. This is done at compile/build time of your project and the output is a generated JS file. The **second step** is to **consume** the generated JS validation function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **first step** is to **generate** the standalone validation function code. This is done at compile/build time of your project and the output is a generated JS file. The **second step** is to **use** the generated JS validation function.
```

There are two methods to generate the code, using either the Ajv CLI or the Ajv JS library. There are also a few different options that can be passed when generating code. Below is just a highlight of a few options:

- Set the `code.source` (JS) value to true or use the `compile` (CLI) command to generate standalone code.
- The standalone code can be generated in either ES5 or ES6, it defaults to ES5. Set the `code.es5` (JS) value to true or
  pass the `--code-es5` (CLI) flag to true if you want ES5 code.
- The standalone code can be generated in either CJS (module.export & require) or ESM (exports & import), it defaults
to CJS. Set the `code.esm` (JS) value to true or pass the `--code-esm` (CLI) flag if you want ESM exported code.

> Note that the way the function is exported, differs if you are exporting a single or multiple schemas. Examples below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the way the function is exported, differs if you are exporting a single or multiple schemas. See examples below.
```

### Generating function(s) using CLI

In most cases you would use this functionality via [ajv-cli](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv-cli) (>= 4.0.0)
to generate the standalone code that exports the validation function.
See [ajv-cli](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv-cli#compile-schemas) docs and the
[cli options](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv-cli#ajv-options) for additional information.

#### Using the defaults - ES6 and CJS exports
```sh
npm install -g ajv-cli
ajv compile -s schema.json -o validate_schema.js
```

### Generating using the JS library

Install the package, version >= v7.0.0: 
```sh
npm install ajv
```

#### Generating functions(s) for a single schema using the JS library - ES6 and CJS exports

```javascript
const fs = require("fs")
const path = require("path")
const Ajv = require("ajv")
const standaloneCode = require("ajv/dist/standalone").default

const schema = {
  $id: "https://example.com/bar.json",
  $schema: "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  type: "object",
  properties: {

>     bar: {
>       type: "string"
>     },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    bar: {type: "string"},
```

  },

>   "required": [
>     "bar",
>   ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "required": ["bar"]
```

[[toc]]

> Ajv supports generating standalone validation functions from the JSON Schema into functions at compile/build
> time. These functions can then just be consumed during runtime to do validation checks against JSON.
> It is useful for several reasons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ajv supports generating standalone validation functions from the JSON Schema into functions at compile/build time. These functions can then just be consumed during runtime to do validation checks against JSON. It is useful for several reasons:
```

> - To reduce the browser bundle size - Ajv is not included in the bundle (although if you have a large number 
> of schemas the bundle can become bigger - when the total size of generated validation code is bigger than Ajv code).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To reduce the browser bundle size - Ajv is not included in the bundle (although if you have a large number of schemas the bundle can become bigger - when the total size of generated validation code is bigger than Ajv code).
```

- To reduce the start-up time - the validation and compilation of schemas will happen during build time.

> - To avoid dynamic code evaluation with the function constructor (used for schema compilation) - when it is prohibited
> by the browser page [Content Security Policy](./security.md#content-security-policy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To avoid dynamic code evaluation with the function constructor (used for schema compilation) - when it is prohibited by the browser page [Content Security Policy](./security.md#content-security-policy).
```

> This functionality in Ajv v7 supersedes the deprecated package ajv-pack that can be used with Ajv v6. All schemas, 
> including those with recursive references, formats and user-defined keywords are supported, with few
> [limitations](#configuration-and-limitations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This functionality in Ajv v7 supersedes the deprecated package ajv-pack that can be used with Ajv v6. All schemas, including those with recursive references, formats and user-defined keywords are supported, with few [limitations](#configuration-and-limitations).
```

## Two-step process 

> The **first step** is to **generate** the standalone validation function code. This is done at compile/build time 
> of your project and the output is a generated JS file. The **second step** is to **consume** the generated 
> JS validation function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **first step** is to **generate** the standalone validation function code. This is done at compile/build time of your project and the output is a generated JS file. The **second step** is to **consume** the generated JS validation function.
```

> There are two methods to generate the code, using either the Ajv CLI or the Ajv JS library. There are also a few 
> different options that can be passed when generating code. Below is just a highlight of a few options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two methods to generate the code, using either the Ajv CLI or the Ajv JS library. There are also a few different options that can be passed when generating code. Below is just a highlight of a few options:
```

- Set the `code.source` (JS) value to true or use the `compile` (CLI) command to generate standalone code.

> - The standalone code can be generated in either ES5 or ES6, it defaults to ES5. Set the `code.es5` (JS) value to true or
>   pass the `--code-es5` (CLI) flag to true if you want ES5 code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The standalone code can be generated in either ES5 or ES6, it defaults to ES6. Set the `code.es5` (JS) value to true or pass the `--code-es5` (CLI) flag to true if you want ES5 code.
```

> - The standalone code can be generated in either CJS (module.export & require) or ESM (exports & import), it defaults
> to CJS. Set the `code.esm` (JS) value to true or pass the `--code-esm` (CLI) flag if you want ESM exported code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The standalone code can be generated in either CJS (module.export & require) or ESM (exports & import), it defaults to CJS. Set the `code.esm` (JS) value to true or pass the `--code-esm` (CLI) flag if you want ESM exported code.
```

Note that the way the function is exported, differs if you are exporting a single or multiple schemas. Examples below.

### Generating function(s) using CLI

> In most cases you would use this functionality via [ajv-cli](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv-cli) (>= 4.0.0)
> to generate the standalone code that exports the validation function.
> See [ajv-cli](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv-cli#compile-schemas) docs and the
> [cli options](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv-cli#ajv-options) for additional information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases you would use this functionality via [ajv-cli](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv-cli) (>= 4.0.0) to generate the standalone code that exports the validation function. See [ajv-cli](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv-cli#compile-schemas) docs and the [cli options](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv-cli#ajv-options) for additional information.
```

:::

## Using the validation function(s)

### Validating a single schemas using the JS library - ES6 and CJS

```javascript
const Bar = require('./validate-cjs')

const barPass = {
    bar: "something"
}

const barFail = {
    // bar: "something" // <= empty/omitted property that is required
}

let validateBar = Bar
if (!validateBar(barPass))
  console.log("ERRORS 1:", validateBar.errors) //Never reaches this because valid

if (!validateBar(barFail))
  console.log("ERRORS 2:", validateBar.errors) //Errors array gets logged
```

### Validating multiple schemas using the JS library - ES6 and CJS

```javascript
const validations = require('./validate-cjs')

const fooPass = {
  foo: {
    bar: "something"
  }
}

const fooFail = {
  foo: {
    // bar: "something" // <= empty/omitted property that is required
  }
}

let validateFoo = validations["#/definitions/Foo"];
if (!validateFoo(fooPass))
  console.log("ERRORS 1:", validateFoo.errors); //Never reaches this because valid

if (!validateFoo(fooFail))
  console.log("ERRORS 2:", validateFoo.errors); //Errors array gets logged

```

> ### Validating multiple schemas using the JS library - ES6 and ESM
> ```javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Validating multiple schemas using the JS library - ES6 and ESM

```javascript
```

import {Foo, Bar} from './validate-multiple-esm.mjs';

const fooPass = {
  foo: {
    bar: "something"
  }
}

const fooFail = {
  foo: {
    // bar: "something" // bar: "something" <= empty properties
  }
}

let validateFoo = Foo;
if (!validateFoo(fooPass))
  console.log("ERRORS 1:", validateFoo.errors); //Never reaches here because valid

if (!validateFoo(fooFail))
  console.log("ERRORS 2:", validateFoo.errors); //Errors array gets logged
```

### Requirement at runtime

> One of the main reason for using the standalone mode is to compile the JSON schema into functions at build 
> time and then just consume them during runtime. This prevents the initial compilation at runtime which saves time at runtime. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the main reason for using the standalone mode is to compile the JSON schema into functions at build time and then just consume them during runtime. This prevents the initial compilation at runtime which saves time at runtime. 
```

> It is important to understand that the standalone generated functions still has a dependency on the Ajv. Specifically
> on the code in the [runtime](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv/tree/master/lib/runtime) folder of the package. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to understand that the standalone generated functions still has a dependency on the Ajv. Specifically on the code in the [runtime](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv/tree/master/lib/runtime) folder of the package. 
```

> Completely isolated validation functions can be generated if desired (won't be for most use cases). Run the generated code
> through a bundler like ES Build to create completely isolated validation functions that can be imported/required 
> without any dependency on Ajv. This is also not needed if your project is already using a bundler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Completely isolated validation functions can be generated if desired (won't be for most use cases). Run the generated code through a bundler like ES Build to create completely isolated validation functions that can be imported/required without any dependency on Ajv. This is also not needed if your project is already using a bundler.
```

## Configuration and limitations

To support standalone code generation:

- Ajv option `code.source` must be set to `true`
- Only `code` and `macro` user-defined keywords are supported (see [User defined keywords](./keywords.md)).

> - When `code` keywords define variables in shared scope using `gen.scopeValue`, they must provide `code` property with 
> the code snippet. See source code of pre-defined keywords for examples in 
> [vocabularies folder](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv/blob/master/lib/vocabularies).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When `code` keywords define variables in shared scope using `gen.scopeValue`, they must provide `code` property with the code snippet. See source code of pre-defined keywords for examples in [vocabularies folder](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv/blob/master/lib/vocabularies).
```

> - If formats are used in standalone code, ajv option `code.formats` should contain the code snippet that will evaluate 
> to an object with all used format definitions - it can be a call to `require("...")` with the correct path 
> (relative to the location of saved module):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If formats are used in standalone code, ajv option `code.formats` should contain the code snippet that will evaluate to an object with all used format definitions - it can be a call to `require("...")` with the correct path (relative to the location of saved module):
```

>     ```javascript
>     import myFormats from "./my-formats"
>     import Ajv, {_} from "ajv"
>     const ajv = new Ajv({
>       formats: myFormats,
>       code: {
>         source: true,
>         formats: _`require("./my-formats")`,
>       },
>     })
>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript
import myFormats from "./my-formats"
import Ajv, {_} from "ajv"
const ajv = new Ajv({
  formats: myFormats,
  code: {
    source: true,
    formats: _`require("./my-formats")`,
  },
})
```
```
